# Meeting Notes - Core Team Meeting June 19 2017

6pm to 7:30pm
Biddle's Escape

### In attendance:

    Eleanor
    Coral
    Dale
    Connor

### Slack notes:

(Eleanor, mostly)

Hey @channel! We are having a planning meeting at Biddle's Escape and I am gonna live slack it in case you want to chime in from home.

[6:18] 
Connor is describing the idea of having Code for PGH work nights based around a single overarching "spine" of a project.

[6:20] 
He says theoretical cons are that:
1) We may be less flexible to new opportunities
2) We will need to ensure that people know the single project isn't *all* we do - so we will need a timeline with a set endpoint (at least to reevaluate where our main focus is.) He says 6 months is a feasible timeline.

[6:21] 
Features:
1) It is super exciting
2) And *also* may provide more stability in terms of ongoing attention, resources - people will get hooked and want to come back the following month
3) May be some specific roles for project that we can define as project leadership roles; an opportunity to expand formal roles within Code for PGH and grow leaders.

[6:23] 
Coral says that imposter syndrome could be a challenge for people in our current model - but with a longer project people can build their confidence to "spin up." We would have to make sure we made it clear people could join at any time. Another pro is that we can invite designers and other folks, too.

[6:25] 
Eleanor says any large project would have opportunities for learning built in- such as learning github.

[6:25] 
Dale suggests that participation growth would be a good metric - it isn't just about the project being built.

[6:26] 
Connor says planning might be easier with a clear project.

[6:27] 
Thumbs up all around.

[6:27] 
So what should the project be?

[6:29] 
Connor proposes the "Landmarks that Departed Map" as a potential project with lots of "hooks" that Code for PGH has already been working on and built enthusiasm around.

[6:29] 
Actual name TBD.

[6:29] 
Perhaps "Unlandmarks"

[6:30] 
Landmarks that Departed might encompass:
1) Buildings that got torn down
2) Natural landmarks that were destroyed
3) Businesses that went out of business
4) ETC.

[6:31] 
The hope would  be that you can ask this map for navigation/directions and it would give you navigation based on ONLY Landmarks that aren't there - because that's how Yinzers give directions.

[6:32] 
It would have to be open source, b/c this is NOT the only town that does that.

[6:33] 
Requirements of a good Code for PGH process:
1) Open source
2) Thorough documentation of product
3) Thorough documentation of process
4) As future-proof as possible (markdown is nice, etc., etc.)

[6:34] 
This project would bring in new people we haven't engaged before. Especially if we structure it as having data entry sessions at libraries with historic maps and other "non-tech-y" tasks.

[6:34] 
Might need to get wishy-washy on dates in some cases.

[6:35] 
We already have a list of fields from prior Code for PGH work.

[6:36] 
Check out #landmarks channel (for past work.) (edited)

[6:36] 
Could also do listening sessions - come down and tell us when you grew up in Pittsburgh, where did your family go that isn't there anymore (food scene for example.)

[6:37] 
Good way to loop in Storycorps, journalists, History/Preservation org. (edited)

[6:38] 
Map will be based on code from Fish Fry map - similar endeavor.

[6:40] 
Eleanor had mentioned there are lots of opportunities and she loves all of them - but might be worth thinking through what a minimum viable product is for the 6 month - that's how Fish Fry map came into convo. (edited)

[6:42] 
Connor mentions that we will need to choose/elevate which data we start with. For example, if we're recording businesses, perhaps start with black owned businesses. Public art removal would also be a good one - lots of historical injustices/a form of censorship. (edited)

[6:42] 
Dale mentions Pokemon Go as a good source for lost public art.

[6:44] 
Map could be a central repository of data and maps could be styled that feed from that repository.

[6:44] 
Photographs/urls to link to photographs.

[6:45] 
Could also have listening sessions in each neighborhood (eventually.) A good excuse for field trips! (edited)

[6:46] 
Watch the Rick Sebak documentaries.

[6:48] 
Thumbs up all around to the project.

[6:50] 
Big question is in the details of implementation: How might we tie mini learning opportunities into the project? There might be people not interested the Landmarks map who might benefit from a workshop on github or geocoding or other related skills.

[6:50] 
They may just want to come for a workshop and apply those new skills to other projects.

[6:51] 
We will have 6 CLP work nights (July - December) this year.

[6:51] 
Connor wants to announce the project publicly and start asking for some data via a web form by "H Day" (which is July 19th.)

[6:52] 
http://theglassblock.com/2016/07/13/introducing-h-day/
The Glassblock
Introducing H Day, a New Holiday for Pittsburgh | The Glassblock
In 1891, "Pittsburgh" lost its final letter. On July 19, 1911, it was restored. Let's celebrate H Day.
July 13th, 2016 at 3:00 PM
 

[6:55] 
In addition to CLP-Lawrenceville Work Nights Connor wants to do one big listening session somewhere other than Lawrenceville (potentially still a CLP location or potentially an interesting local spot) each month also.

[6:55] 
If we do history walks (one idea) we need to preview the walk to have a sense of accessibility.

eleanortutt [7:08 PM] 
For next 6 month, Code for PGH leadership will be focused on Landmarks - but there will still be space for members to follow their own passions. In the past a "Code for PGH project" is any project that has a  finished project planning project - essentially giving members a "way in."

[7:10] 
"If you're working on civic tech stuff, but this is not your jam, you should still show up" - Coral's awesome verbiage for future meetups.

slackbot [7:11 PM] Only visible to you
Ok, I will import this Google Drive file and import all future ones automatically.

connorsb [7:11 PM] 
shared gassc’s file
Code for Pittsburgh Concept Paper - Landmarks That Departed Map
Document from Google Drive
Click to open in Google Drive
Add Comment

eleanortutt [7:11 PM] 
basically, if people have other awesome work they are doing that they would like to be under the Code for PGH umbrella and they are fairly-self-sufficient, we don't want to turn them away just b/c  core leadership are focusing our planning energy in one space.

[7:15] 
ALso - your fearless notetaker, Eleanor, had no idea that there was such a complete Concept Paper she could have linked to!

eleanortutt [7:22 PM] 
Action steps:
1) To make onboarding easier, we need a better way for people to get a slack invite (web form.)
2) Start up a new github repo for planning documentation
3) Add to our website as a project

[7:23] 
Side note: slack as core communication channel for leadership - want to get away from a million channels of communication. (edited)

[7:27] 
4) A few metrics for success
5) A schedule for the rest of the year

[7:28] 
At next Work Night we need to:
1) Introduce the project
2) Should it be a "How Do You Github?" + Exciting Announcement?

coral [7:30 PM] 
I don’t know if this will help at all, being several years old, but here’s a thing: https://github.com/anchorageprogramming/github101 (edited)

eleanortutt [7:30 PM] 
Also need to figure out what people can do on their own time outside work nights - bite sized stuff.

coral [7:30 PM] 
A Github how-to lesson for newbies, not-yet-programmers

eleanortutt [7:30 PM] 
Looking for places with data or resources.

mhowe0422 [7:42 PM] 
Thanks for the meeting stream.

eleanortutt [8:28 PM] 
No problem @mhowe0422! :slightly_smiling_face:

[8:28] 
We were interrupted by a thunderstorm, so we'll have to keep working out some concrete next steps, responsibilities, etc.

connorsb [9:02 PM] 
Thanks @eleanortutt for note-taking!